# Prediction-of-Diamonds-Price-_ML
This project mainly focused on the price prediction of diamonds based on their cut, color, clarity and price. Diamond is the highest valuable and precious metal in terms of jewellery. In northern America, Diamond has a separate Executive based market. Diamonds are perhaps the most expensive among several products that consumers do not quantitatively or objectively value. With a strong emphasis on interpersonal relations, buying is far from fair. The jewellers will entice any man and woman by selling it as a must for the occasion and a status symbol and referring to this expensive and unaffordable piece as priceless. On the other hand, a gemologist determines a diamond's real value after examining its different "features'' and applying the relative valuation theory of "compare and price." As a precious metal, diamond having the most desirable value in the current world. From my initial research on the dataset - Diamond, I analysed and found appropriate levels which would help me to build an ML agent which could predict the future price based on statistics and features. From there, I researched and finalized that I would work with this dataset. I have dropped down all unnecessary data and train them to implement various linear regression models and classifiers. For this particular model, a classifier would not be the best choice to determine the accuracy. I have implemented different types of regression models and generated accuracy results for each model, giving us a reasonable rate to predict the future diamond price rate. Understanding the background strategies of diamond price factors and future diamond values helps me determine the procedures I should take to train my agent using Machine learning techniques, which help me predict diamond price as per the requirements as diamond values depend on several features and its outreach market. Throughout the background research process, I have gathered all required techniques that would help to implement the machine learning techniques. I also analyzed the  4 dataset and implemented all regression models to determine the best accuracy and best regression value to predict the diamond price. 
